# Media Bias
The watchdogs. The voice for the voiceless. The truth seekers. The influencers. The source for objective news. Over time, the role of a journalist has fluctuated between these cliches. Today, media is expected to (though, often does not) deliver objective, non-partisan news. However, this was not always the expectation of media. As American scholar Jim A. Kuypers explains in his book, news publications use to openly admit to their bias, taking sides with a party or candidate or policy. In the Jacksonian Era and at end of the Vietnam War and the start of Watergate scandal, journalists took to a new approach: investigative journalism (Kuypers 6-7). Subjective and judgemental journalism seeked to serve as the watchdog of government and offer hard-hitting news. Journalists took pride in sharing opinions and influencing people with their rational arguments. In today’s times, this “subjective” journalism is restricted to the “opinion” section of a news publication. Publications, today, attempt to convey news “objectivity”, making sure their audience hears all sides of an issue. However, with President Donald Trump’s allegations of “fake news” and misleading 2016 election polls, many people have called into question the reliability and objectivity of publications across the nation. If news organizations are our source of information, it becomes increasingly important to understand the potential “hidden bias” in these publications.

### Research purpose 

Professor Larry Schweikart writes that the two most common questions he gets from his students are “why are colleges so liberal?” and “why is the media so liberal?” (Kuypers xi). In this project, we try to determine a tangible way to measure what “so liberal” looks like and means. By collecting content from The Daily Californian and The Stanford Daily, we hope to gain insight on the discourse of both colleges and the bias present in both publications. The reason we are interested in looking at both publications is because we hope to understand our results by comparing the two publications. Our goal is to understand Berkeley discourse and The Daily Californian’s bias not only by the content of its articles but also by comparison to Stanford discourse and The Stanford Daily’s bias. 


